README.md, before:

MusicXML Player
===============

[![Build](https://github.com/infojunkie/musicxml-player/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/infojunkie/musicxml-player/actions/workflows/test.yml)

A TypeScript component that loads and plays MusicXML files in the browser using Web Audio and Web MIDI.

# Getting started
```
npm install
npm run build
npm test
npm run demo
```
Then open http://127.0.0.1:8080/
# Theory of operation
This component synchronizes rendering and playback of MusicXML documents. Rendering is done using existing Web-based music engraving libraries such as [OpenSheetMusicDisplay](https://github.com/opensheetmusicdisplay/opensheetmusicdisplay) or [Verovio](https://github.com/rism-digital/verovio). Playback uses standard MIDI files that are expected to correspond to the given MusicXML, and sends the MIDI events to either a Web MIDI output, or to a Web Audio synthesizer.

The crucial part of this functionality is to synchronize the measures and beats in the MusicXML file with the events of the MIDI file. In a nutshell, the player expects the provider of the MIDI file (an implementation of `IMidiConverter`) to supply a "timemap", which associates each measure in the MusicXML file to a timestamp at which this measure occurs. In the case of repeats and jumps, the same measure will be referenced several times in the timemap.

To produce such MIDI files and timemaps from a MusicXML score, the player utilizes the companion tool [`musicxml-mma`](https://github.com/infojunkie/musicxml-mma). The demo above automatically installs and runs `musicxml-mma` in the background.

Commit message:

Fix #19, fix #31 horizontal mode and Verovio cursor

README.md, after:

MusicXML Player
===============

[![Build](https://github.com/infojunkie/musicxml-player/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/infojunkie/musicxml-player/actions/workflows/test.yml)

A TypeScript component that loads and plays MusicXML files in the browser using Web Audio and Web MIDI.

# Getting started
```
npm install
npm run build
npm test
npm run demo
```
Then open http://127.0.0.1:8080/
# Theory of operation
This component synchronizes rendering and playback of MusicXML documents. Rendering is done using existing Web-based music engraving libraries such as [OpenSheetMusicDisplay](https://github.com/opensheetmusicdisplay/opensheetmusicdisplay) or [Verovio](https://github.com/rism-digital/verovio). Playback uses standard MIDI files that are expected to correspond to the given MusicXML, and sends the MIDI events to either a Web MIDI output, or to a Web Audio synthesizer.

The crucial part of this functionality is to synchronize the measures and beats in the MusicXML file with the events of the MIDI file. In a nutshell, the player expects the provider of the MIDI file (an implementation of `IMidiConverter`) to supply a "timemap", which associates each measure in the MusicXML file to a timestamp at which this measure occurs. In the case of repeats and jumps, the same measure will be referenced several times in the timemap.

There are 3 bundled implementations of `IMidiConverter` in this module:
- An API client that connects to the [`musicxml-mma`](https://github.com/infojunkie/musicxml-mma) server. `musicxml-mma` is a work-in-progress whose major contribution is to generate a MIDI accompaniment in addition to the music in the MusicXML score.
- [Verovio](https://github.com/rism-digital/verovio), that generates a faithful rendition of the MusicXML score.
- It is also possible to hand-craft the MIDI and timemap files, and instruct the player to read those explicitly.

# API usage
At the moment, the only documentation available for the usage of the player is located in the [demo app](demo/demo.mjs).
